# Describe the core architectural components of Azure

## Introduction

In this module, you’ll be introduced to the core architectural components of Azure. You’ll learn about Azure's physical layout: datacenters, availability zones, and regions; and you’ll learn about Azure's management structure: resources and resource groups, subscriptions, and management groups.

### Learning objectives
After completing this module, you’ll be able to:

* Describe Azure regions, region pairs, and sovereign regions.
* Describe Availability Zones.
* Describe Azure datacenters.
* Describe Azure resources and Resource Groups.
* Describe subscriptions.
* Describe management groups.
* Describe the hierarchy of resource groups, subscriptions, and management groups.

## What is Microsoft Azure

Azure is a continually expanding set of cloud services that help you meet current and future IT challenges. Azure gives you the freedom to build, manage, and deploy applications on a massive global network using your favorite tools and frameworks.

### What does Azure offer?

**Limitless innovation**. Build intelligent apps and solutions with advanced technology, tools, and services to take your operations to the next level. Seamlessly unify your technology to simplify platform management and deliver innovations efficiently and securely on a trusted cloud.

* **Bring ideas to life:** Build on a trusted platform to advance your team's capabilities with industry-leading AI and cloud services.
* **Seamlessly unify:** Efficiently manage all your infrastructure, data, analytics, and AI solutions across an integrated platform.
* **Innovate on trust:** Rely on trusted technology from a partner who's dedicated to security and responsibility.

### What can I do with Azure?
Azure provides hundreds of services that enable you to do everything from running your existing applications on virtual machines to exploring new software paradigms, such as intelligent bots and generative AI.
